now the days of David drew near that he
should die and he charged Solomon his
son I goes away of all the earth
be strong therefore and prove yourself a
man and keep the charge of the Lord your
God to walk in his ways to keep his
statutes his Commandments his judgments
and his testimonies as it is written in
the law of Moses that you may prosper in
all that you do and wherever you turn
that the Lord may fulfill his word which
he spoke concerning me saying if your
sons take heed to their way to walk
before me in truth with all their heart
and with all their soul he said you
shall not lack a man on the throne of
Israel moreover you know also what Joab
the son of Zahra aya did to me and what
he did to the two commanders of the
armies of Israel to Abner the son of nur
and a mesa the son of G thir whom he
killed and he shed the blood of war
and put the blood of war on his belt
that was around his waist and on his
sandals that were on his feet
therefore do according to your wisdom
and do not let his gray hair go down to
the grave in peace but show kindness to
the sons of barzillai the gileadite and
let them be among those who eat at your
table for so they came to me when I fled
from Absalom your brother and see you
have with you Jimmy I the son of Gera a
Benjamite from Mahut m'm who cursed me
with a malicious curse in the day when I
went to May and naen but he came down to
meet me at the Jordan and I swore to him
by the Lord saying I will not put you to
death with the sword now therefore do
not hold him guiltless for you are a
wise man and know what you ought to do
to him but bring his gray hair down to
the grave with blood
[Music]
so David rested with his father's and
was buried in the City of David the
period that David reigned over Israel
was 40 years seven years he reigned in
Hebron and in Jerusalem he reigned 33
years then Solomon sat on the throne of
his father David and his kingdom was
firmly established now a denied you the
son of hagath came to Bathsheba the
mother of Solomon do you come peaceably
peaceably I have something to say to you
say it you know that the kingdom was
mine and all Israel had set their
expectations on me that I should reign
however the kingdom has been turned over
and has become my brothers for it was
his from the Lord now I ask one petition
of you do not deny me say it please
speak to King Solomon for he will not
refuse you that he may give me Abishag
the Shunammite as wife very well
I will speak for you to the king but
Sheba therefore went to King Solomon to
speak to him for a denied you and the
King rose up to meet her and bowed down
to her and sat down on his throne and
had a throne set for the Kings mother so
she sat at his right hand and she said I
desire one small petition of you do not
refuse me ask it my mother for I will
not refuse you let abhisheka Shunammite
be given to add a Niger your brother as
wife now why do you ask
I assured the Shunammite for Adonai gia
asked for him the kingdom also for he is
my older brother for him and for abaya
the priests and for Joab the son of
Sariah when King Solomon swore by the
Lord may God do so to me and more also
if Adonai gia has not spoken this word
against his own life now therefore as
the Lord lives who has confirmed me and
set me on the throne of David my father
and who has established a house for me
as he promised Adonai gia shall be put
to death today
so King Solomon sent by the hand of
benaiah the son of jehoiada and he
struck him down and he died and to her
by Arthur the priests the King said go
to Anathoth
to your own fields for you are deserving
of death but I will not put you to death
at this time because you carried the Ark
of the Lord God
before my father David and because you
were afflicted every time my father was
afflicted so Solomon removed a Bartha
from being priests to the Lord that he
might fulfill the word of the Lord which
he spoke concerning the house of Eli at
Shiloh then news came to Joey for Joab
had defected to add an idea though he
had not defected to Absalom so Joab fled
to the tabernacle of the Lord and took
hold of the horns of the altar and King
Solomon was told
Joab has fled to the tabernacle of the
Lord there he is
by the altar
and Solomon sent benaiah the son of
jehoiada go strike him down
so benaiah went to the tabernacle of the
Lord and said to him thus says the king
come out know what I will die here and
benaiah brought back word to the king
thus said Joab and thus he answered me
do as he has said but strike him down
and bury him that you may take away from
me and from the house of my father the
innocent blood which john shed so the
Lord will return his blood on his head
because he struck down two men more
righteous and better than he and killed
them with the sword Abner the son of nur
the commander of the army of Israel and
a mesa the son of G thir the commander
of the army of Judah though my father
David did not know it their blood shall
therefore return upon the head of job
and upon the head of his descendants
forever but upon David and his
descendants upon his house and his
throne there shall be peace forever from
the Lord
so benaiah the son of jehoiada went up
and struck and killed him
and he was buried in his own house in
the wilderness the King put benaiah the
son of jehoiada in his place over the
army and the King put Zadok the priest
in the place of a by effect then the
king sent and called for shimmy and said
to him build yourself a house in
Jerusalem and dwell there and do not go
out from there anywhere for it shall be
on the day you go out and cross the
brook kidron know for certain you shall
surely die your blood shall be on your
own head I'm Jimmy I said to the king
the saying is good is my lord the King
has said so your servant will do so she
me I dwelt in Jerusalem many days now it
happened at the end of three years that
two slaves of Shammi I ran away to a
Koosh the son of may occur king of Gath
and they told shimmy I looked your
slaves are in Gath
so shimmy I arose saddled his donkey and
went to a cash at Gath to seek his
slaves and shimei I went and brought his
slaves from Gath and Solomon was told
that shamira
had gone from Jerusalem to Gath and had
come back then the king sent and called
for shamea and said to him did I not
make you swear by the Lord and warn you
say no for certain that on the day you
go out and travel anywhere you shall
surely die and you said to me the word I
have
why then have you not kept the oath of
the Lord and the commandment that I gave
you you know as your heart acknowledges
all the wickedness that you did to my
father David therefore the Lord will
return your wickedness on your own head
but King Solomon shall be blessed and
the throne of David shall be established
before the Lord forever
so the king commanded benaiah the son of
jehoiada and he went out and struck him
down and he died
thus the kingdom was established in the
hand of Solomon
[Music]